---
title: Syllabus
layout: single
toc: true
toc_label: "Syllabus Contents"
---

## Purpose and Objectives

This course .... To summarize, in this course you will:

After this course you will know how to:


  1. A
  1. B

This syllabus contains policies and expectations I have established
for {{ site.title }}. Please read carefully the entire syllabus before
continuing in this course. I intend for these policies and
expectations to create a productive learning atmosphere for all
students. Unless you are prepared to abide by these policies and
expectations, you risk losing the opportunity to participate further
in the course. Policies and expectations as set forth in this syllabus
may be modified at any time by the course instructor. Notice of such
changes will be made by announcement in class, by written or email
notice, or by changes to this syllabus posted on the course website.

## Contact

The best way to get in contact for personal, private (FERPA, etc)
messages is via my email address
[{{ site.author.emailaddr }}]({{ site.author.email }}). You should expect a
response within 48 hours. You will find that I am faster with
[Piazza](piazza) or our public forums. If I deem it even potentially
useful to others, I will likely anonymize your letter, re-post it on
Piazza, answer it there, and forward you the link.

A great regular way to reach out for help is via our [office
hours]({{ site.baseurl }}/office-hours/).

## Grade Breakdown

I will assign overall course grades as follows:

	 | Category                  | Weight (%) |
	 |---------------------------+------------|
	 |
	 | Course eval               |          1 |
	 | Total                     |        101 |



## Participation

I expect you to attend each lecture. Attendance is a prerequisite for
participation, a substantial portion of your grade for this course. I
expect students to attend every class and remain in class throughout
the duration of the session. Your absence or tardiness will impact
your ability to achieve course objectives which could hurt your course
grade. An absence, excused or unexcused, does not relieve a student of
any course requirement. Lecture content quizzes serve as proxies for
participation and thus attendance, as well as to gauge students'
understanding.

### Lecture Quizzes/Polls

Expect to have regular content quizzes during or toward the end of
lecture. These act as a forcing function, encouraging attention to
lectures and/or the ancillary readings and to alert me to students'
difficulties. Sometimes we take these for completion, others for
accuracy. These lecture quizzes belongs under your participation
grade. To account for illnesses, other commitments that come up, and
all the other vagaries of life, I'll drop 5/25 of these quizzes for
you all. I don't know that I'd be comfortable dropping 1/5 of them
under normal circumstances, but at least in the current situation that
seems like a reasonable precaution. If you think you're sick, please
do get yourself checked and be safe.


## Homework


### Exams


### Course evaluations

I encourage students to take time and submit Course evaluations. Your
time is busy at the end of the term when these are available. In order
to fairly compensate you for that time without violating the integrity
or anonymity of the system, if 85% or more of the enrolled students
complete these Course evaluations, then I shall add a point onto the
class-wide final average.

## Project

## Lecture

The vast majority of course content will come from in-class lecture,
supplemented with notes distributed online. Therefore, attending
lecture is of the utmost importance. *You should make every effort to
attend each lecture, and take vigorous notes.* We will often provide
directly the answers to homework problems in lecture, and this course
is significantly more difficult for the student who misses one or more
lectures. There are no substitutes for participating in class
activities. We will sometimes distribute electronic transcripts of the
in-class code, but this is no substitute for careful notes and
understanding its development. Regular class attendance is a student's
obligation, as is responsibility for all the content of class
meetings, including tests.

You should plan to have with you tools to take vigorous notes. Pencil
and paper, or some electronic tablet version of the aforementioned,
are especially effective. I have traditionally found the use of
laptops and cell phones in the classroom disruptive. I have come to
understand that I may be a bit of a Luddite and for the first time I'm
removing the usual prohibition. However, if students' laptops and cell
phones become disruptive for the general classroom environment or
students around them, I will revisit this decision. The use of cell
phones, smart phones, or other mobile communication devices is
disruptive, and is therefore prohibited during class.

I do not permit electronic video and/or audio recording of class
without prior permission. Unless the student obtains permission from
the instructor electronic video and/or audio recording of class is
prohibited. If you receive permission, any distribution of the
recording is prohibited. Students with specific electronic recording
accommodations authorized by the [DSS](academic-accommodations) do not
require instructor permission; however, the instructor must be
notified of any such accommodation prior to recording. Any
distribution of such recordings is prohibited.

## Additional Support

In addition to lecture, we provide the following additional resources
for students to avail themselves. Do consider taking regular advantage
of them.

### Scheduled Office Hours

Course personnel will make ourselves available for 4-6 hours of
[office hours]({{ site.baseurl}}/office-hours/) available weekly,
concentrated toward assignment due dates. If our office hours schedule
in particularly ill-suited to your class schedule, let me know and we
may be able to adjust them. As per current university guidance, we
will hold these office hours remotely.

## Plagiarism & Cheating

In this context, cheating refers to copying or submitting as your own,
with or without consent, someone else’s work as your own.
Misrepresentation of someone else’s work as one’s own is a grave
violation of academic ethics. This includes copying from someone else
answers to questions during an examination as well as copying programs
from internet sources. Plagiarism refers to using someone else’s work
in your own and not properly crediting the authors of that work. This
includes adapting someone else’s code to solve a problem or write a
program. There will be no tolerance for cheating and plagiarism in
this course. Any material that is not entirely your own work needs to
be properly indicated and cited. This includes any work produced
together with fellow students. You MUST indicate any sources of help
outside of the course text(s) and your own work, including the names
of students with whom you worked, internet resources or other sources
of help. Failure to do so constitutes a violation of academic
integrity. When in doubt, ask your instructor. Violations of academic
integrity will lead to a score of zero on the offending assignment and
likely an immediately failing grade for the course.

## Academic Accommodations

It is the policy and practice of Seton Hall University to promote
inclusive learning environments. If you have a documented disability
you may be eligible for reasonable accommodations in compliance with
University policy, the Americans with Disabilities Act, Section 504 of
the Rehabilitation Act, and/or the New Jersey Law against
Discrimination. Please note, students are not permitted to negotiate
accommodations directly with professors. To request accommodations or
assistance, please self-identify with the Office for Disability
Support Services (DSS), Duffy Hall, Room 67 at the beginning of the
semester. For more information or to register for services, contact
DSS at (973) 313-6003 or by [e-mail](mailto:DSS@shu.edu), or visit
their [webpage](https://www.shu.edu/disability-support-services/index.cfm).

## Equity and Compliance

One of our responsibilities in supporting student learning 360° is to
help create a safe learning environment both in person and virtually.
You should carefully consult the university's [relevant information
and policies](https://www.shu.edu/title-ix/index.cfm), and if you have
or experience any violations of the above I encourage you to take full
advantage of the university resources.

It is also important that you know that federal regulations and
University policy require me to promptly convey any information about
certain kinds of misconduct known to me to our Title IX Coordinator.
In that event, they will work with a small number of others on campus
to ensure that appropriate measures are taken and resources are made
available to the student who may have been harmed. Protecting a
student’s privacy is of utmost concern, and all involved will only
share information with those that need to know to ensure the
University can respond and assist.

## Technology and Platforms

We will use a variety of tools and platforms to facilitate teaching
and learning over the semester. Please see the [technology page]({{
site.baseurl }}/tech/) for more details.

## Acknowledgments

Thanks over the years for inspiration and content from at least the
following: Dan Friedman, Shriram Krishnamurthi, Lindsey Kuper, and
Marco Morazán.

![In the syllabus]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/syllabus.gif "Might just be worth checking.")
